index.md, before:

*Associate Professor of Economics* <br/> 
[Department of Public Policy](https:///dpp.ceu.edu/), [Central European University, Vienna](https://ceu.edu/)<br/>
B-412, Quellenstraße 51, 1100 Vienna <br/>
Phone: +43.1.25230.2054

*Senior Researcher* <br/>
[Vienna Center for Experimental Economics](https://vcee.univie.ac.at/?no_cache=1), [University of Vienna](https://www.univie.ac.at/en/) <br/>
Office 5.332, Oskar-Morgenstern-Platz 1, 1090 Vienna <br/>

Affiliate Faculty: [Democracy Institute](https://democracyinstitute.ceu.edu/research/de-and-re-democratization-drd) and [Social Mind Center](https://socialmind.ceu.edu/)

Fellow, [Institute of Advanced Studies Vienna](https://www.ihs.ac.at/people/fellows/anand-murugesan/)

Here is a link to my [CV](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2mzcqfzp432sdk7qgl2fx/CV_AMurugesan_latest.pdf?rlkey=jbqvsiqfpeo6meja5vgqxxlt9&dl=0)

email: <murugesana@ceu.edu>

#### Social media (infrequent user)
Bluesky: [@anandmurugesan.bsky.social](https://bsky.app/profile/anandmurugesan.bsky.social)
Twitter : [@tapasiva](https://twitter.com/tapasiva)

---
<!--   -->

## News

["*Markets for Children*,"](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11150-025-09811-3?utm_source=rct_congratemailt&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=oa_20251016&utm_content=10.1007/s11150-025-09811-3) forthcoming at *Review of Economics of the Household*

---
## Research 

**Fields of Interest**

Development  | Public Economics

Political Behavior | Experimental Economics 

### Current projects
<div style="position: relative; width: 495px; /* Match image width */">
  <img src="Democracy_Renew_Anand.png" width="495" height="330" alt="Democracy Renewed Project Image" />
  <p style="position: absolute; bottom: 2px; left: 2px; font-size: 0.5em; color: grey; padding: 2px;">
    Photo credit: Tiziana Centofanti
  </p>
</div>

---
Valuing Democracy, with [Jean-Robert Tyran](https://homepage.univie.ac.at/jean-robert.tyran/index.html)

  - [Votes (not) for sale: Evidence from an Institutional Discontinuity in Southern India](https://events.ceu.edu/2025-02-26/brownbag-seminar-why-votes-are-not-sale-evidence-institutional-discontinuity-southern), with J-R Tyran
  - Fighting Cash-for-Votes: Information Interventions, with J-R Tyran
  - Voters' Dilemma, with T. Ranganathan and J-R Tyran

[Voice and Vote: Measuring democratic resilience](https://homepage.univie.ac.at/jean-robert.tyran/wwtf.html), with Jean-Robert Tyran
<!--  Emotions in Politics, with [Jorg Matthes](https://advertisingresearch.univie.ac.at/team/joerg-matthes/), and Jean-Robert Tyran -->

[Holy Cow! Conflicts, Markets, and Social Costs of Intolerance](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/7gsm45u7gix0iy9f4ppc1/Holy_Cow_ECBS_BrownBag_April2024_v3.pdf?rlkey=ts3cko75rkoob75asyaylc3m8&dl=0), with [Jitendra Singh](https://sites.google.com/view/jitendrasingh07)

Give or Take: Experimental examination of bribery vs. extortion, with [Robert Innes](https://robinnes.weebly.com/)

<!-- [Let them play games! Experimental methods to elicit social norms](https://www.dropbox.com/s/frysh7muu82q56q/LetThemPlayGames_ESABologna2022_Abstract.pdf?dl=0), with Mahendran Chokkalingam, Christophe Heintz and Mia Karabegovic
The sticky self and the icky other!* Using coordination games to elicit self-image signals with C. Heintz and M. Karabegovic
Comparing the response variance between the many-to-one and one-to-one norm elicitation method 
[Poster presented at the ASSA 2022 annual meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/n5nhjf3zn64f80t/Holy_Cow_AEA2022_Poster.pdf?dl=0)
Impact of the US opioid crisis on Children, with Dana Andersen -->

### Working papers

[
From Enlightened Cameralism to Tax Compliance: Building fiscal
capacity through reciprocity](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/tvlghs2d19q10cnvkuyte/DorschMurugesan_Habsburgs_v3.pdf?rlkey=lpih9qh1v94bn3sv3ip2i0coq&dl=0), with [Michael Dorsch](https://sites.google.com/view/dorsch/home) 

Greening the margins: Evidence of amplifying investments in local environmental restoration, with [T. Centofanti](https://people.ceu.edu/tiziana_centofanti) 

<!-- ["Demystifying causal inference: ingredients of a recipe,"](https://www.dropbox.com/s/13fxlc6asavwdaf/demystifycausalinference_ieg_wp393.pdf?dl=0) with Vikram Dayal, *IEG working paper* -->

### Book 

[*Demystifying causal inference*: Public Policy Applications with R](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-981-99-3905-3) (2023), with Vikram Dayal, Springer [Number of Accesses: >11K since 1 October 2023]

### Publications 

["*Markets for Children*: International Adoption, ART, and U.S. Foster Care,"](https://rdcu.be/eLpFH) with Robert Innes (forthcoming, *Review of Economics of the Household*)

[Paying cash for votes](https://www.econstor.eu/bitstream/10419/279254/1/cesifo1_wp10504.pdf) with Jean-Robert Tyran, [*Elgar Encyclopedia of Public Choice*](https://www.e-elgar.com/shop/gbp/elgar-encyclopedia-of-public-choice-9781802207743.html), November 2025

["Leader and citizens participation for the environment: Experimental evidence from Eastern Europe,"](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S221480432200088X) with Tiziana Centofanti, *Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Economics,* October 2022 [Replication files on Mendeley Data](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/2ssxp4cj23/1)

["*Drain on your health*: Sanitation externalities from dirty drains in India,"](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/rode.12924) with Vikram Dayal and Tauhidur Rahman, *Review of Development Economics,* November 2022 [Replication files on Mendeley Data](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/2c3kzy4v93/3)

["Air Pollution Trade-Offs in Developing Countries: An Empirical Model of Health Effects in Goa, India,"](https://www.doi.org/10.1017/S1355770X21000152) with Sanghamitra Das, Vikram Dayal, and Uma Rajarathnam, *Environment and Development Economics*, June 2021
[Replication files](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/nbfek922paco3vl/AACi31LUrwKxoVm4ugDoyTR5a?dl=0)

["Electoral clientelism and vote buying,"](https://oxfordre.com/politics/view/10.1093/acrefore/9780190228637.001.0001/acrefore-9780190228637-e-1334) *Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Politics*, 2020

["Use of Weather Information for Agricultural Decision Making,"](https://doi.org/10.1175/WCAS-D-12-00022.1) with George Frisvold, *Weather, Climate and Society*, 5, January Issue, 55-69, 2013.

### Other

[Understanding our Political Nature: How to put knowledge and reason at the heart of political decision-making](https://knowledge4policy.ec.europa.eu/projects-activities/understanding-our-political-nature-how-put-knowledge-reason-heart-political_en), author of [the economics team report](https://www.dropbox.com/s/y3aowk1dxekfzsv/Economics_PoliticalBehavior_JRC_Nov2018.pdf?dl=00) with [Martina Barjaková](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Martina-Barjakova-2) and [Michael Vlassopoulos](https://sites.google.com/view/michael-vlassopoulos/home), 2019 (the report was a foundation for the [European Democracy Action Plan](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_2250))


#### Recent and upcoming presentations/research visits

<div style="position: relative; width: 495px; /* Match image width */">
  <img src="kite.jpg" width="495" height="330" alt="Flying a kite" />
  <p style="position: absolute; bottom: 2px; left: 2px; font-size: 0.5em; color: grey; padding: 2px;">
    Photo credit: Sabya 
  </p>
</div>

<!-- [Wirtschafts Universität Wien](https://www.wu.ac.at/en/ims/news/seminar-series/) seminar series (October 11, 2022)

[Università Bocconi](http://www.igier.unibocconi.it/) (November 14 - 18, 2022)

[European Public Choice Society 2023](https://www.epcs2023.uni-hannover.de/en/) (March 22 - 25, 2023)

[Institute of Advanced Studies](https://www.ihs.ac.at/ru/behavioral-economics/) (May 3, 2023)

[Vienna Applied Micro Economics Workshop](https://viennappliedmicroeconomics.weebly.com/workshop.html) (June 19, 2023) 

[Western Economic Association 2023](https://weai.org/conferences/view/13/98th-Annual-Conference) (July 3 - 7, 2023)

[Stanford University](https://kingcenter.stanford.edu/) (July 10 - 12, 2023)

[Center for Development Studies, India](https://cds.edu/#m-10-2022) (August 4, 2023)

[Delhi School of Economics, India](http://econdse.org/cde-seminars/) (August 31, 2023)

[Indian Statistical Institute, Delhi](https://www.isid.ac.in/) (September 1, 2023)

[Democracy Institute Budapest](https://democracyinstitute.ceu.edu/news-events-events/rooftop-seminar-series) Rooftop seminar series (October 2, 2023) 

[Annual Conference on Economic Growth and Development](https://www.isid.ac.in/~acegd/acegd2023/index.html) (18 - 20 December, 2023) 

[Workshop on "Uncovering the Historical Mechanisms of Persistence](https://dpp.ceu.edu/workshop-historical-persistence) (18 - 19 January, 2024)

[Econ CAKE talk, University of Utah](https://economics.utah.edu/events/index.php?trumbaEmbed=view%3Devent%26eventid%3D171610971) (February 23, 2024)

Workshop on Experiments in Research and for Policymaking, EUBA Bratislava (March 21, 2024)

[European Public Choice Society Meeting](https://www.wu.ac.at/epcs2024/) (April 2 - 5, 2024)

Azim Premji University, Bangalore (August 20, 2024)

[Slovak Economic Association Meeting (SEAM 2024)](https://slovakecon.sk/seam2024/program.html) (September 12 - 13, 2024)

[CRADLE, Cornell University](https://cornell.app.box.com/s/upylx989go5rnnu60mtyu5n8ohz6c8mi) (Oct 3 - 5, 2024)

[Sciences Po](https://www.sciencespo.fr/axpo/people/visiting-fellows/), Paris (Research visit, 10 October - 3 November, 2024)

Vienna Behavioral Circle, Wirtschaftsuniversität (15 November 2024)

[DSE Winter School 2024](http://econdse.org/wp-content/uploads/Programme-Schedule-2.pdf) (12 - 14 December)

[BREW-ESA 2024](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/ekew0xskr4c3zi8zl6fim/BREW-ESA_conference_schedule2024.pdf?rlkey=004e5i4df5xyv9s99q4hpv72r&e=2&st=i8yyxw3v&dl=0) (15 - 17 December)

[Annual Conference on Economic Growth and Development 2024](https://www.isid.ac.in/~acegd/acegd2024/program.html), New Delhi (19 - 21 December)
-->
---
[Democracy Institute Budapest](https://events.ceu.edu/2025-03-31/when-do-citizens-sell-their-votes-evidence-southern-india) Rooftop seminar series (31 March 2025)

[European Public Choice Society 2025](https://epcs2025.sseriga.edu/) (April 3 - 5, 2025)

Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (August 13, 2025)

[Workshop in Behavioral Public Economics and Political Economy, Vienna](https://bepe2025.univie.ac.at/) (September 1 - 2, 2025)

[Economic Science Association, 2025 European Meeting, Brno](https://esa2025.econ.muni.cz/media/3896100/2025-esa-conference-program.pdf) (September 3 - 6, 2025)

[Vienna Applied Micro Economics Workshop](https://www.viennaappliedmicroeconomics.com/uploads/1/4/3/2/143264130/program_vam_workshop_oct_2025.pdf), Vienna (October 24, 2025)


#### Links to recent collaborators

[Vikram Dayal](https://iegindia.org/team/vikram-dayal/) | [Michael Dorsch](https://sites.google.com/view/dorsch/home) | 
[Jitendra Singh](https://sites.google.com/view/jitendrasingh07) | [Jean-Robert Tyran](https://homepage.univie.ac.at/jean-robert.tyran/index.html)  

## Teaching

### Central European University, Vienna 

**Fall 2025** 

[Economic Analysis for Public Policy](https://ceu.studyguide.timeedit.net/modules/DOPP5664?type=CORE) with Michael Dorsch

**Winter/Spring 2026** 

[Impact Evaluation: Policy Applications with R](https://ceu.studyguide.timeedit.net/modules/DOPP5078?type=CORE)

[Advanced Impact Evaluation](https://ceu.studyguide.timeedit.net/modules/DOPP5383?type=CORE)


**Note on Recommendation Letters for Students**

I am happy to provide recommendations or support letters for students who have completed at least one of my elective courses or whom I've advised in research. This, along with a week's notice, is a necessary condition. If you would like me to write substantive and informative letters, you'd be better served by performing well in my courses and engaging productively in class. I only write confidential letters, sent directly to the institution, to ensure my evaluations are credible, candid, and objective.

## Bio

PhD, University of Maryland, College Park <br/>
 [Economics of Society: Essays on Health, Marriage, and Child Adoption]<br/>
MA, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi<br/>
BCom, Bangalore University (St. Joseph's College)<br/>

Born 1980, Bangalore, Indian citizenship

## Various and sundry

Between December 2023 and February 2024, I was shuttling (actually, riding or pillion-riding a motorbike) across the Tamil Nadu and Kerala border (Palakkad-Pollachi), conducting fieldwork for the Valuing Democracy project. Some stills from the field: 

<img src="Palakkad_Vengodi_Training.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="Palakkad_Para_LunchPlace.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> 

Debriefing and training enumerators at the field office in Vengodi, Palakkad (L). Our go-to lunch place was Hotel Venkatesh Bhavan (R) -- uses a wood-fired stove for cooking and redolent of [Malgudi Days](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mIYA5qANs_A).

<img src="PoliticianInterview_Ramassery.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="Idli_Ramassery.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> 

We interviewed scores of politicians: here is one with Libin (L) and a stopover for the famed Ramasseri idli with Sreenivasan Ji (R). [Is it an idli or a dosa?](https://www.thehindu.com/life-and-style/food/ramasseri-idli-a-fusion-of-an-idli-and-a-dosa/article34206074.ece)

<img src="Palakkad_Thenari_TeaShopDiscussion.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="Pollachi_Thimmanguthu.png" width="225" height="150" /> 

An impromptu discussion at a tea stall (with the stall owner, an insightful, white-bearded, old friend of Sreenivasan Ji's father) (L) and the trusted Honda that got us around (R). 

<img src="Palakkad_Vengodi_Handloom.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="Palakkad_SilentValley_Trees.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> 

An inspiring visit to the [Khadi](https://www.mkgandhi.org/swadeshi_khadi/whatiskhadi.htm) cottage industry next door (we bought handmade fabric for custom-fitted shirts by a local tailor) (L) and taking in the moment with a view of the Silent Valley (R). 



<!-- You can find fieldwork pictures on our [Greening the Margin project here](https://tizianacentofanti.wixsite.com/personalwebsite/gallery) and --> 

Here is my sketch (below) of a bestselling book my daughter recommended I read, and I recommend you do; [it's a short read](https://www.charliemackesy.com/). 

<img src="theboythemule.png" width="150" height="200" /> 

And a dated picture of traditional seed sowing on my parents' farm in Tamil Nadu, India (on the left) and me breaking traditions (on the right).

<img src="6979F656-02F0-472E-84A1-AB3B22C5BCAB.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="till.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> 

My brother worked on [the effect of angular momentum or spin velocity in the formation of galaxies](https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/483/2/2398/5222687); more recently, on examining [the interactive effect of angular momentum and gravitation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2006.08103.pdf) in the formation of celestial bodies. My brother lives in the part of the world where, in theory, water flowing down the drain is expected to spin in the opposite direction compared to the drains in parts I am in... ;) <br/>

Shoutout to places I love eating at:  

- Dosa at [SN Refreshments](https://maps.app.goo.gl/ziETrgusZctJkbQFA)
- South Indian filter coffee at [A2B](https://aabsweets.com/) with [chicory](https://www.malgudidays.com.au/blogs/news/chicory-and-south-indian-filter-coffee) in the mix (as in the New Orleans-style [Cafe du Monde](https://shop.cafedumonde.com/coffee/))
- Pizza at [Doma](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Gnx1d4ax8pvLoVx79)
- Gelato at [Carapina](https://maps.app.goo.gl/T8giLPcs9ZqubqCJ7) (two doors down from Doma, and four from Caffe Del Porto, the OG spot for [Moretta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moretta_(coffee))--the drink, if you want a coffee-sugar high but countered with equal parts of Brandy and Rum--it's a fisherman's bar.)
- Phad krapow at [Kamala Thai Imbiss](https://maps.app.goo.gl/UCSbstNjs5gy8T7w9)
- Sacher torta at [Hotel Sacher](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Ca3dWBSgW5Q4E5Rf9)

And where I'd be happy to go back: 

- [Kwon](https://guide.michelin.com/at/en/ile-de-france/paris/restaurant/kwon) and [Kodawari Tsukiji](https://www.kodawari-ramen.com/kodawari-tsukiji-la-carte/), Paris
- [Rasika](https://www.rasikarestaurant.com/), DC and [Semma](https://www.semma.nyc/), NYC

<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://embedbsky.com/embedbsky.com-master-min.css" /><div id="embedbsky-com-timeline-embed"></div><script>let containerWidth=400,containerHeight=400;const getHtml=async t=>{const e=await fetch(t);return 200!==e.status?'<p><strong>No feed data could be located</p></strong>':e.text()};document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded',(async()=>{const t=(new Date).toISOString(),e=document.getElementById('embedbsky-com-timeline-embed');e.style.width=`${containerWidth}px`,e.style.height=`${containerHeight}px`;const n=await getHtml(`https://embedbsky.com/feeds/5fba2aa9a3fe9f7fc7706e06e97c0e168ece11ea03482ff583f41f56732c2c30.html?v=${t}`);e.innerHTML=n}));</script>

<!-- 
<a class="twitter-timeline" href="https://twitter.com/tapasiva?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">Tweets by tapasiva</a> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<script src="https://static.elfsight.com/platform/platform.js" async></script>
<div class="elfsight-app-47c64d34-7e71-4312-8875-c432c26785cf" data-elfsight-app-lazy></div>

-->
---

*"The first principle is that you must not fool yourself -- and you are the easiest person to fool. So you have to be very careful about that. After you've not fooled yourself, it's easy not to fool other scientists. You just have to be honest in a conventional way after that." - Richard Feynman at Caltech, 1974*

<p style="font-size: x-small;"> <!--  Excerpt from my 2015 Research Statement, which continues to hold today (I've mixed feelings about this consistency): `` ...The underlying theme of my research is throwing light on issues of society, where individual interest and a larger collective bargain are divergent ...and seeing how institutional arrangements, legal, social or economic, can improve individual incentives for better collective outcomes..."-->


Photo credits: "Democracy must be renewed every day" (Tiziana); Flying a kite (Sabya); Fieldwork in Palakkad (Sreenivasan ji, Libin or me)
</p>

<!-- Global site tag (gtag.js) - Google Analytics -->

<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=UA-162382665-1"></script>
<script>
  window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];
  function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}
  gtag('js', new Date());
  gtag('config', 'UA-162382665-1');
</script>

Commit message:

Revise index entries for clarity and consistency
Updated the index with new title: Seeding hope

index.md, after:

*Associate Professor of Economics* <br/> 
[Department of Public Policy](https:///dpp.ceu.edu/), [Central European University, Vienna](https://ceu.edu/)<br/>
B-412, Quellenstraße 51, 1100 Vienna <br/>
Phone: +43.1.25230.2054

*Senior Researcher* <br/>
[Vienna Center for Experimental Economics](https://vcee.univie.ac.at/?no_cache=1), [University of Vienna](https://www.univie.ac.at/en/) <br/>
Office 5.332, Oskar-Morgenstern-Platz 1, 1090 Vienna <br/>

Affiliate Faculty: [Democracy Institute](https://democracyinstitute.ceu.edu/research/de-and-re-democratization-drd) and [Social Mind Center](https://socialmind.ceu.edu/)

Fellow, [Institute of Advanced Studies Vienna](https://www.ihs.ac.at/people/fellows/anand-murugesan/)

Here is a link to my [CV](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/2mzcqfzp432sdk7qgl2fx/CV_AMurugesan_latest.pdf?rlkey=jbqvsiqfpeo6meja5vgqxxlt9&dl=0)

email: <murugesana@ceu.edu>

#### Social media (infrequent user)
Bluesky: [@anandmurugesan.bsky.social](https://bsky.app/profile/anandmurugesan.bsky.social)
Twitter : [@tapasiva](https://twitter.com/tapasiva)

---
<!--   -->

## News

["*Markets for Children*,"](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11150-025-09811-3?utm_source=rct_congratemailt&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=oa_20251016&utm_content=10.1007/s11150-025-09811-3) forthcoming at *Review of Economics of the Household*

---
## Research 

**Fields of Interest**

Development  | Public Economics

Political Behavior | Experimental Economics 

### Current projects
<div style="position: relative; width: 495px; /* Match image width */">
  <img src="Democracy_Renew_Anand.png" width="495" height="330" alt="Democracy Renewed Project Image" />
  <p style="position: absolute; bottom: 2px; left: 2px; font-size: 0.5em; color: grey; padding: 2px;">
    Photo credit: Tiziana Centofanti
  </p>
</div>

---
Valuing Democracy, with [Jean-Robert Tyran](https://homepage.univie.ac.at/jean-robert.tyran/index.html)

  - [Votes (not) for sale: Evidence from an Institutional Discontinuity in Southern India](https://events.ceu.edu/2025-02-26/brownbag-seminar-why-votes-are-not-sale-evidence-institutional-discontinuity-southern), with J-R Tyran
  - Fighting Cash-for-Votes: Information Interventions, with J-R Tyran
  - Voters' Dilemma, with T. Ranganathan and J-R Tyran

[Voice and Vote: Measuring democratic resilience](https://homepage.univie.ac.at/jean-robert.tyran/wwtf.html), with Jean-Robert Tyran
<!--  Emotions in Politics, with [Jorg Matthes](https://advertisingresearch.univie.ac.at/team/joerg-matthes/), and Jean-Robert Tyran -->

[Holy Cow! Conflicts, Markets, and Social Costs of Intolerance](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/7gsm45u7gix0iy9f4ppc1/Holy_Cow_ECBS_BrownBag_April2024_v3.pdf?rlkey=ts3cko75rkoob75asyaylc3m8&dl=0), with [Jitendra Singh](https://sites.google.com/view/jitendrasingh07)

Give or Take: Experimental examination of bribery vs. extortion, with [Robert Innes](https://robinnes.weebly.com/)

<!-- [Let them play games! Experimental methods to elicit social norms](https://www.dropbox.com/s/frysh7muu82q56q/LetThemPlayGames_ESABologna2022_Abstract.pdf?dl=0), with Mahendran Chokkalingam, Christophe Heintz and Mia Karabegovic
The sticky self and the icky other!* Using coordination games to elicit self-image signals with C. Heintz and M. Karabegovic
Comparing the response variance between the many-to-one and one-to-one norm elicitation method 
[Poster presented at the ASSA 2022 annual meeting](https://www.dropbox.com/s/n5nhjf3zn64f80t/Holy_Cow_AEA2022_Poster.pdf?dl=0)
Impact of the US opioid crisis on Children, with Dana Andersen -->

### Working papers

[
From Enlightened Cameralism to Tax Compliance: Building fiscal
capacity through reciprocity](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/tvlghs2d19q10cnvkuyte/DorschMurugesan_Habsburgs_v3.pdf?rlkey=lpih9qh1v94bn3sv3ip2i0coq&dl=0), with [Michael Dorsch](https://sites.google.com/view/dorsch/home) 

Seeding hope: The Participatory Multiplier Effect with [T. Centofanti](https://people.ceu.edu/tiziana_centofanti) 

<!-- ["Demystifying causal inference: ingredients of a recipe,"](https://www.dropbox.com/s/13fxlc6asavwdaf/demystifycausalinference_ieg_wp393.pdf?dl=0) with Vikram Dayal, *IEG working paper* -->

### Book 

[*Demystifying causal inference*: Public Policy Applications with R](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-981-99-3905-3) (2023), with Vikram Dayal, Springer [Number of Accesses: >11K since 1 October 2023]

### Publications 

["*Markets for Children*: International Adoption, ART, and U.S. Foster Care,"](https://rdcu.be/eLpFH) with Robert Innes (forthcoming, *Review of Economics of the Household*)

[Paying cash for votes](https://www.econstor.eu/bitstream/10419/279254/1/cesifo1_wp10504.pdf) with Jean-Robert Tyran, [*Elgar Encyclopedia of Public Choice*](https://www.e-elgar.com/shop/gbp/elgar-encyclopedia-of-public-choice-9781802207743.html), November 2025

["Leader and citizens participation for the environment: Experimental evidence from Eastern Europe,"](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S221480432200088X) with Tiziana Centofanti, *Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Economics,* October 2022 [Replication files on Mendeley Data](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/2ssxp4cj23/1)

["*Drain on your health*: Sanitation externalities from dirty drains in India,"](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/rode.12924) with Vikram Dayal and Tauhidur Rahman, *Review of Development Economics,* November 2022 [Replication files on Mendeley Data](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/2c3kzy4v93/3)

["Air Pollution Trade-Offs in Developing Countries: An Empirical Model of Health Effects in Goa, India,"](https://www.doi.org/10.1017/S1355770X21000152) with Sanghamitra Das, Vikram Dayal, and Uma Rajarathnam, *Environment and Development Economics*, June 2021
[Replication files](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/nbfek922paco3vl/AACi31LUrwKxoVm4ugDoyTR5a?dl=0)

["Electoral clientelism and vote buying,"](https://oxfordre.com/politics/view/10.1093/acrefore/9780190228637.001.0001/acrefore-9780190228637-e-1334) *Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Politics*, 2020

["Use of Weather Information for Agricultural Decision Making,"](https://doi.org/10.1175/WCAS-D-12-00022.1) with George Frisvold, *Weather, Climate and Society*, 5, January Issue, 55-69, 2013.

### Other

[Understanding our Political Nature: How to put knowledge and reason at the heart of political decision-making](https://knowledge4policy.ec.europa.eu/projects-activities/understanding-our-political-nature-how-put-knowledge-reason-heart-political_en), author of [the economics team report](https://www.dropbox.com/s/y3aowk1dxekfzsv/Economics_PoliticalBehavior_JRC_Nov2018.pdf?dl=00) with [Martina Barjaková](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Martina-Barjakova-2) and [Michael Vlassopoulos](https://sites.google.com/view/michael-vlassopoulos/home), 2019 (the report was a foundation for the [European Democracy Action Plan](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_2250))


#### Recent and upcoming presentations/research visits

<div style="position: relative; width: 495px; /* Match image width */">
  <img src="kite.jpg" width="495" height="330" alt="Flying a kite" />
  <p style="position: absolute; bottom: 2px; left: 2px; font-size: 0.5em; color: grey; padding: 2px;">
    Photo credit: Sabya 
  </p>
</div>

<!-- [Wirtschafts Universität Wien](https://www.wu.ac.at/en/ims/news/seminar-series/) seminar series (October 11, 2022)

[Università Bocconi](http://www.igier.unibocconi.it/) (November 14 - 18, 2022)

[European Public Choice Society 2023](https://www.epcs2023.uni-hannover.de/en/) (March 22 - 25, 2023)

[Institute of Advanced Studies](https://www.ihs.ac.at/ru/behavioral-economics/) (May 3, 2023)

[Vienna Applied Micro Economics Workshop](https://viennappliedmicroeconomics.weebly.com/workshop.html) (June 19, 2023) 

[Western Economic Association 2023](https://weai.org/conferences/view/13/98th-Annual-Conference) (July 3 - 7, 2023)

[Stanford University](https://kingcenter.stanford.edu/) (July 10 - 12, 2023)

[Center for Development Studies, India](https://cds.edu/#m-10-2022) (August 4, 2023)

[Delhi School of Economics, India](http://econdse.org/cde-seminars/) (August 31, 2023)

[Indian Statistical Institute, Delhi](https://www.isid.ac.in/) (September 1, 2023)

[Democracy Institute Budapest](https://democracyinstitute.ceu.edu/news-events-events/rooftop-seminar-series) Rooftop seminar series (October 2, 2023) 

[Annual Conference on Economic Growth and Development](https://www.isid.ac.in/~acegd/acegd2023/index.html) (18 - 20 December, 2023) 

[Workshop on "Uncovering the Historical Mechanisms of Persistence](https://dpp.ceu.edu/workshop-historical-persistence) (18 - 19 January, 2024)

[Econ CAKE talk, University of Utah](https://economics.utah.edu/events/index.php?trumbaEmbed=view%3Devent%26eventid%3D171610971) (February 23, 2024)

Workshop on Experiments in Research and for Policymaking, EUBA Bratislava (March 21, 2024)

[European Public Choice Society Meeting](https://www.wu.ac.at/epcs2024/) (April 2 - 5, 2024)

Azim Premji University, Bangalore (August 20, 2024)

[Slovak Economic Association Meeting (SEAM 2024)](https://slovakecon.sk/seam2024/program.html) (September 12 - 13, 2024)

[CRADLE, Cornell University](https://cornell.app.box.com/s/upylx989go5rnnu60mtyu5n8ohz6c8mi) (Oct 3 - 5, 2024)

[Sciences Po](https://www.sciencespo.fr/axpo/people/visiting-fellows/), Paris (Research visit, 10 October - 3 November, 2024)

Vienna Behavioral Circle, Wirtschaftsuniversität (15 November 2024)

[DSE Winter School 2024](http://econdse.org/wp-content/uploads/Programme-Schedule-2.pdf) (12 - 14 December)

[BREW-ESA 2024](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/ekew0xskr4c3zi8zl6fim/BREW-ESA_conference_schedule2024.pdf?rlkey=004e5i4df5xyv9s99q4hpv72r&e=2&st=i8yyxw3v&dl=0) (15 - 17 December)

[Annual Conference on Economic Growth and Development 2024](https://www.isid.ac.in/~acegd/acegd2024/program.html), New Delhi (19 - 21 December)
-->
---
[Democracy Institute Budapest](https://events.ceu.edu/2025-03-31/when-do-citizens-sell-their-votes-evidence-southern-india) Rooftop seminar series (31 March 2025)

[European Public Choice Society 2025](https://epcs2025.sseriga.edu/) (April 3 - 5, 2025)

Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (August 13, 2025)

[Workshop in Behavioral Public Economics and Political Economy, Vienna](https://bepe2025.univie.ac.at/) (September 1 - 2, 2025)

[Economic Science Association, 2025 European Meeting, Brno](https://esa2025.econ.muni.cz/media/3896100/2025-esa-conference-program.pdf) (September 3 - 6, 2025)

[Vienna Applied Micro Economics Workshop](https://www.viennaappliedmicroeconomics.com/uploads/1/4/3/2/143264130/program_vam_workshop_oct_2025.pdf), Vienna (October 24, 2025)


#### Links to recent collaborators

[Vikram Dayal](https://iegindia.org/team/vikram-dayal/) | [Michael Dorsch](https://sites.google.com/view/dorsch/home) | 
[Jitendra Singh](https://sites.google.com/view/jitendrasingh07) | [Jean-Robert Tyran](https://homepage.univie.ac.at/jean-robert.tyran/index.html)  

## Teaching

### Central European University, Vienna 

**Fall 2025** 

[Economic Analysis for Public Policy](https://ceu.studyguide.timeedit.net/modules/DOPP5664?type=CORE) with Michael Dorsch

**Winter/Spring 2026** 

[Impact Evaluation: Policy Applications with R](https://ceu.studyguide.timeedit.net/modules/DOPP5078?type=CORE)

[Advanced Impact Evaluation](https://ceu.studyguide.timeedit.net/modules/DOPP5383?type=CORE)


**Note on Recommendation Letters for Students**

I am happy to provide recommendations or support letters for students who have completed at least one of my elective courses or whom I've advised in research. This, along with a week's notice, is a necessary condition. If you would like me to write substantive and informative letters, you'd be better served by performing well in my courses and engaging productively in class. I only write confidential letters, sent directly to the institution, to ensure my evaluations are credible, candid, and objective.

## Bio

PhD, University of Maryland, College Park <br/>
 [Economics of Society: Essays on Health, Marriage, and Child Adoption]<br/>
MA, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi<br/>
BCom, Bangalore University (St. Joseph's College)<br/>

Born 1980, Bangalore, Indian citizenship

## Various and sundry

Between December 2023 and February 2024, I was shuttling (actually, riding or pillion-riding a motorbike) across the Tamil Nadu and Kerala border (Palakkad-Pollachi), conducting fieldwork for the Valuing Democracy project. Some stills from the field: 

<img src="Palakkad_Vengodi_Training.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="Palakkad_Para_LunchPlace.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> 

Debriefing and training enumerators at the field office in Vengodi, Palakkad (L). Our go-to lunch place was Hotel Venkatesh Bhavan (R) -- uses a wood-fired stove for cooking and redolent of [Malgudi Days](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mIYA5qANs_A).

<img src="PoliticianInterview_Ramassery.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="Idli_Ramassery.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> 

We interviewed scores of politicians: here is one with Libin (L) and a stopover for the famed Ramasseri idli with Sreenivasan Ji (R). [Is it an idli or a dosa?](https://www.thehindu.com/life-and-style/food/ramasseri-idli-a-fusion-of-an-idli-and-a-dosa/article34206074.ece)

<img src="Palakkad_Thenari_TeaShopDiscussion.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="Pollachi_Thimmanguthu.png" width="225" height="150" /> 

An impromptu discussion at a tea stall (with the stall owner, an insightful, white-bearded, old friend of Sreenivasan Ji's father) (L) and the trusted Honda that got us around (R). 

<img src="Palakkad_Vengodi_Handloom.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="Palakkad_SilentValley_Trees.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> 

An inspiring visit to the [Khadi](https://www.mkgandhi.org/swadeshi_khadi/whatiskhadi.htm) cottage industry next door (we bought handmade fabric for custom-fitted shirts by a local tailor) (L) and taking in the moment with a view of the Silent Valley (R). 



<!-- You can find fieldwork pictures on our [Greening the Margin project here](https://tizianacentofanti.wixsite.com/personalwebsite/gallery) and --> 

Here is my sketch (below) of a bestselling book my daughter recommended I read, and I recommend you do; [it's a short read](https://www.charliemackesy.com/). 

<img src="theboythemule.png" width="150" height="200" /> 

And a dated picture of traditional seed sowing on my parents' farm in Tamil Nadu, India (on the left) and me breaking traditions (on the right).

<img src="6979F656-02F0-472E-84A1-AB3B22C5BCAB.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> <img src="till.jpeg" width="225" height="150" /> 

My brother worked on [the effect of angular momentum or spin velocity in the formation of galaxies](https://academic.oup.com/mnras/article/483/2/2398/5222687); more recently, on examining [the interactive effect of angular momentum and gravitation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2006.08103.pdf) in the formation of celestial bodies. My brother lives in the part of the world where, in theory, water flowing down the drain is expected to spin in the opposite direction compared to the drains in parts I am in... ;) <br/>

Shoutout to places I love eating at:  

- Dosa at [SN Refreshments](https://maps.app.goo.gl/ziETrgusZctJkbQFA)
- South Indian filter coffee at [A2B](https://aabsweets.com/) with [chicory](https://www.malgudidays.com.au/blogs/news/chicory-and-south-indian-filter-coffee) in the mix (as in the New Orleans-style [Cafe du Monde](https://shop.cafedumonde.com/coffee/))
- Pizza at [Doma](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Gnx1d4ax8pvLoVx79)
- Gelato at [Carapina](https://maps.app.goo.gl/T8giLPcs9ZqubqCJ7) (two doors down from Doma, and four from Caffe Del Porto, the OG spot for [Moretta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moretta_(coffee))--the drink, if you want a coffee-sugar high but countered with equal parts of Brandy and Rum--it's a fisherman's bar.)
- Phad krapow at [Kamala Thai Imbiss](https://maps.app.goo.gl/UCSbstNjs5gy8T7w9)
- Sacher torta at [Hotel Sacher](https://maps.app.goo.gl/Ca3dWBSgW5Q4E5Rf9)

And where I'd be happy to go back: 

- [Kwon](https://guide.michelin.com/at/en/ile-de-france/paris/restaurant/kwon) and [Kodawari Tsukiji](https://www.kodawari-ramen.com/kodawari-tsukiji-la-carte/), Paris
- [Rasika](https://www.rasikarestaurant.com/), DC and [Semma](https://www.semma.nyc/), NYC

<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://embedbsky.com/embedbsky.com-master-min.css" /><div id="embedbsky-com-timeline-embed"></div><script>let containerWidth=400,containerHeight=400;const getHtml=async t=>{const e=await fetch(t);return 200!==e.status?'<p><strong>No feed data could be located</p></strong>':e.text()};document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded',(async()=>{const t=(new Date).toISOString(),e=document.getElementById('embedbsky-com-timeline-embed');e.style.width=`${containerWidth}px`,e.style.height=`${containerHeight}px`;const n=await getHtml(`https://embedbsky.com/feeds/5fba2aa9a3fe9f7fc7706e06e97c0e168ece11ea03482ff583f41f56732c2c30.html?v=${t}`);e.innerHTML=n}));</script>

<!-- 
<a class="twitter-timeline" href="https://twitter.com/tapasiva?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">Tweets by tapasiva</a> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

<script src="https://static.elfsight.com/platform/platform.js" async></script>
<div class="elfsight-app-47c64d34-7e71-4312-8875-c432c26785cf" data-elfsight-app-lazy></div>

-->
---

*"The first principle is that you must not fool yourself -- and you are the easiest person to fool. So you have to be very careful about that. After you've not fooled yourself, it's easy not to fool other scientists. You just have to be honest in a conventional way after that." - Richard Feynman at Caltech, 1974*

<p style="font-size: x-small;"> <!--  Excerpt from my 2015 Research Statement, which continues to hold today (I've mixed feelings about this consistency): `` ...The underlying theme of my research is throwing light on issues of society, where individual interest and a larger collective bargain are divergent ...and seeing how institutional arrangements, legal, social or economic, can improve individual incentives for better collective outcomes..."-->


Photo credits: "Democracy must be renewed every day" (Tiziana); Flying a kite (Sabya); Fieldwork in Palakkad (Sreenivasan ji, Libin or me)
</p>

<!-- Global site tag (gtag.js) - Google Analytics -->

<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=UA-162382665-1"></script>
<script>
  window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];
  function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}
  gtag('js', new Date());
  gtag('config', 'UA-162382665-1');
</script>
